I just want to take a minute to brag on my team.

In March of last year, the team formed around a big, new company initiative. The goal was to expand an existing product to enable us to sell into a very big adjacent market. We started with a big document of customer research that our Product Manager had compiled, a team of developers, and no real plan on how to get from here to there. But we had a deadline, a conference taking place in March of 2025.

Y'all, we made it. We successfully launched our new feature set at that conference, and this month we've started onboarding the first customers who signed contracts because of these new features.

I want to talk a little bit about what we did right to make this project a success.

This is for the folks who say that Agile is just waterfall with more meetings. This is for the folks who think that functional teams are a myth, that all managers suck, or that the only way to meet deadlines is to work massive amounts of overtime. For this team, at this company, on this project, all of that is wrong.

So that you know where I'm coming from, I'm the development team lead for this project. There are going to be parts of this where I toot my own horn a bit, but I'm not going to say anything about myself that my managers and team didn't say in my annual review last month, so there's at least that much truth to it.

## Team Structure

Here are the players in this drama:

Product Manager (PM): the big ideas guy. He did all the initial customer research, pitched the project, and served as an ongoing source of customer feedback throughout the project. He was also a main point of contact between the development team and the other departments that needed to be a part of the project launch (marketing, sales, admin) and the company executives.

Technical Project Manager (TPM): another PM, yes, she interfaces much more closely with the day-to-day work of the team, managing the backlog, turning up at meetings, answering questions when we're neck deep in work and run over an edge case.

Team Manager (TM): This person is responsible for the HR-y stuff for the team - reviews, work schedules, hiring and firing, career progression stuff.

Team Lead (TL): Me! Basically being the person who knows everything about every story, unblocking other team members, making sure we have the info we need from the PM/TPM, leading technical discussions, advising the TPM, talking to other teams impacted by our work, lots of coordination, leading most of the meetings, and helping people find the next thing to work on. Plus, of course, normal developer work.

Individual Contributors (ICs): A mix of developers and QA. Our team members are expected to be able to work in any part of the stack, any part of the project.

## Agile

We went all in on the Agile thing. By that I mean we took to heart the Agile Manifesto, but we did not strictly follow Scrum.

Did we use Sprints? Yes. The company requires them for various reasons, but we treated "commitments" as guidelines more than actual rules. In practice, for most of this project, we were doing a kind of Scrum-Kanban hybrid, where we started the sprint with some number of stories that were our main goal for the sprint, and then as we finished stories and had time left, we'd pull in more. Those would roll over and likely become our goal for the next sprint.

Did we do Retros? You betcha. A well-run retro is a great tool for improving team processes. In the beginning, we had a _lot_ to talk about. After a year working as a team, our retros are like 5 minutes of sighing over that IT problem we all had, 5 minutes of sharing praise and kudos for things that went well, and maybe a few minutes talking about who should plan the next social event or sharing relevant memes.

Backlog refinement? Yup. Planning Poker, yes. But we only met when we had work as yet unestimated.